[doc] add differences between styled and sx (#28685)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/system/styled/styled.md

export default styled;
```

## Difference with the `sx` prop

> We want the `styled` function to behave similarly to the `styled` function of other technologies, like Emotion or Styled Components. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `styled` function is an extension of the `styled` utility provided by the underlying styled engine used, emotion or styled-components.
It is guaranteed that it will produce the same output as the `styled` function coming from the styled engine for the same input.
```

> The `sx` prop however, is a new way of styling your application, focused on fast customization. `styled` is a function, while `sx` is a prop of Mui components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`sx`](/system/the-sx-prop/) prop, on the other hand, is a new way of styling your components, focused on fast customization. `styled` is a function, while `sx` is a prop of the MUI components.
```

> Therefore, you may observe a few differences:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, you will notice the following differences:
```

- `sx` provides more shortcuts than `styled`
- the style definition slightly varies

> - patterns to use props are different

Reviewer: Would be great if we can add a short code snippet below each of the points

Author: I would then move the code sample upper. Text would become:

---

Therefore, you may observe a few differences:
- `sx` provides more shortcuts than `styled`
With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
  mx: 1, // ❌ don't use this! This shortcut is only provided by the `sx` prop
})
```
With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{
    mx: 1, // ✔️ this shortcut is specific to the `sx` prop,
  }}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})
```
- the style definition slightly varies
With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
  padding: 1, // means "1px", NOT "theme.spacing(1)"
})
```

With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{
    padding: 1 // means "theme.spacing(1)", NOT "1px"
  }}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})
```
- patterns to use props are different
With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
  backgroundColor: props => props.myBackgroundColor
})
```
With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{backgroundColor: props.myCustomColor}}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})

> You'll need to take those difference into account when refactoring your components.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I would remove this, it doesn't bring any new information.

### Using props

With `styled`:
```js

> const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
>   backgroundColor: props => props.myBackgroundColor
> })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")((props) => ({
  backgroundColor: props.myBackgroundColor
}))
```

So far, we've recommended this approach, it is much cleaner in my opinion, especially when there are longer styles. We use the same when building the MUI components

Author: Completely agree, this is also the only syntax accepted by `tss-react` for the migration of `makeStyles`. However `makeStyles` documentation [here](https://mui.com/styles/api/#returns-3) is showing the "per-field" approach. So it's not obvious for people coming from v4 whether both will work/which one is recommended

```
With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{backgroundColor: props.myCustomColor}}>
     {props.children}
  </button>

> })

Reviewer: Maybe it's worth sharing that if you use callback for some `sx` prop, it is the `theme` you are receiving as a param. For example:

```
  <button sx={{ background: theme => theme.palette.primary.main }}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
```

export default styled;
```

## Difference with the `sx` prop

The `styled` function is an extension of the `styled` utility provided by the underlying styled engine used, emotion or styled-components.
It is guaranteed that it will produce the same output as the `styled` function coming from the styled engine for the same input.

> The [`sx`](/system/the-sx-prop/) prop, on the other hand, is a new way of styling your components, focused on fast customization. `styled` is a function, while `sx` is a prop of the MUI components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The [`sx`](/system/the-sx-prop/) prop, on the other hand, is a new way of styling your components, focused on fast customization. `styled` is a function, while `sx` is a prop of the MUI components.
```

Therefore, you will notice the following differences:

### `sx` provides more shortcuts than `styled`
With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
  mx: 1, // ❌ don't use this! This shortcut is only provided by the `sx` prop
})
```
With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{
    mx: 1, // ✔️ this shortcut is specific to the `sx` prop,
  }}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})
```
### The style definition slightly varies
With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
  padding: 1, // means "1px", NOT "theme.spacing(1)"
})
```

With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{
    padding: 1 // means "theme.spacing(1)", NOT "1px"
  }}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})
```

> ### Patterns to use props are different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Patterns of how to use props are different
```

export default styled;
```

## Difference with the `sx` prop

The `styled` function is an extension of the `styled` utility provided by the underlying styled engine used, emotion or styled-components.
It is guaranteed that it will produce the same output as the `styled` function coming from the styled engine for the same input.

The [`sx`](/system/the-sx-prop/) prop, on the other hand, is a new way of styling your components, focused on fast customization. `styled` is a function, while `sx` is a prop of the MUI components.

Therefore, you will notice the following differences:

### `sx` provides more shortcuts than `styled`
With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
  mx: 1, // ❌ don't use this! This shortcut is only provided by the `sx` prop
})
```
With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{
    mx: 1, // ✔️ this shortcut is specific to the `sx` prop,
  }}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})
```

> ### The style definition slightly varies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The style definition varies slightly
```

With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")({
  padding: 1, // means "1px", NOT "theme.spacing(1)"
})
```

With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{
    padding: 1 // means "theme.spacing(1)", NOT "1px"
  }}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})
```

> ### Patterns of how to use props are different

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Patterns for how to use props differ
```

With `styled`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = styled("button")((props) => ({
  backgroundColor: props.myBackgroundColor
}))

```

With `sx`:
```js
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{backgroundColor: props.myCustomColor}}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})
```

> ### Parameter of each field is different, when using function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Parameter when using function are different for each field
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, sorry we missed this - feel free to submit a quick fix. Editing the file in GitHub and submitting a PR from there might be simplest.

With `styled` (not recommended):
```js
// You may find this syntax in the wild, but for code readability 
// we recommend using only one top-level function
const MyStyledButtonPropsPerField = styled("button")({
  backgroundColor: props => props.myBackgroundColor
})
```
With `sx`:
```js
import { lighten } from "polished"
const MyStyledButton = (props) => (
  <button sx={{backgroundColor: theme => lighten(0.2,theme.palette.primary.main)}}>
     {props.children}
  </button>
})

> // NOTE: for direct theme access without modification, you can also use a shortcut

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Note: for direct theme access without modification, you can also use a shortcut by providing the key as a string
```

const MyStyledButton = (props) => (

>   <button sx={{backgroundColor: "theme.palette.primary.main"}}>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <button sx={{backgroundColor: "primary.main"}}>
```
